First thickness represents the thickness of the tube and should be around \SI{0.975}{\milli\meter}. Figure~~\ref{fig:boxplot_t1_unprocessed} shows a boxplot with the values obtained with the confocal microscope per flow pattern. In some flow patterns the first thickness is higher, which indicates that the sensor is mixing the liquid film with the tube thickness. To correct that the first thickness was evaluated if values above a threshold were removed. Table~~\ref{tab:tube_thickness_preprocessing} shows the results and thresholds tested. Fraction is defined as the ratio of measurements below the threshold by the number of valid measurements. The minimal thickness is unaffected by changing the threshold (which is expected). With higher thresholds, as \SI{1.05}{\milli\meter}, the liquid film is incorporated and all metrics and standard deviation increases. It was decided then to use a threshold of \SI{0.985}{\milli\meter} for any measurement of the first thickness. It had a low deviation for all metrics and good coverage. If any measurement of this thickness was above it, then the difference was added to the second thickness, correcting for the water refractive index.

One issue is that several times the sensor was able to measure the tube thickness but was not able to measure the second thickness (liquid). To ensure that the correction would not add noise, the minimum viable thickness for the liquid film was evaluate. Table~\ref{tab:minimum_thickness} shows the results of minimum and low-percentile measured film thickness. Runs were divided in two categories, those that had a missing rate lesser than \SI{50}{\percent} on the second thickness and those that had higher. Runs sorted by the 5\textsuperscript{th} quantile value. The table shows that the sensor is able to measure thickness as low as \SI{0.25}{\milli\meter}, despite the manufacturer informing a value of \SI{0.50}{\milli\meter} in air, however this happens in very unstable runs with several missing measurements. An acceptable compromise is \SI{0.373}{\milli\meter}, which is the 5\textsuperscript{th} quantile of a stable run. This value is conservative, as if no threshold was selected, the number of missing measurements that would be filled with the excess thickness would account for a total of \SI{25}{\percent} of the missing ones, while with the selected threshold only \SI{0.3}{\percent} are filled. Thresholds of \num{0.1}, \num{0.2} and \SI{0.3}{\milli\meter} would compensate for respectively \num{8.85}, \num{3.40}, \SI{1.15}{\percent} of missing values.

The whole data treatment can be simplified in a few steps as:

\begin{align}
d_1 = \max\left(\delta_1 - \num{0.985}, 0\right) 
d_2 = d_1\left(n_{\text{water}}/n_{\text{BK7}}\right) 
\delta_{1,\text{adjusted}} = \delta_1 - d_1 
\delta_{2,\text{adjusted}} = \delta_2 + d_2
\end{align}
where if $\delta_2$ is missing then $d_2$ must be higher than \SI{0.373}{\milli\meter}.